

Q1: The motivation of the paper is that a significant amount of people suffer from intestinal helminths and its treatment's benefits are strongly underestimated. Its purpose is to show the benefits of that treatment in the form of externalities in a case study with African schools. The research questions center around finding out what are the direct and external effects of worm treatment on school attendance and on academic test scores. Those questions are relevant because worm treatment would be cheaper than other measures to boost school attendance. Also they are relevant because intestine worms are very common and its treatment effect underestimated.

Q2: We should believe that there exists said causal relation because some of the previous literature has already shown that relation or similar relations. Eg  Strauss and Thomas (1998) found that health has a causal effect  on income and Glewwe and Jacoby (1995) found that health causally affects academic achievment. Moreover, we should believe that, because this very paper (Miguel and Kramer 2004) empirically finds that relation, too.

Q3: The experiment is conducted in 75 kenian schools with 30000 children. treatments means that pupils of an entire school get de-worm treatment. The 75 schools are randomly split into 3 equally large groups: 25 school received treamtent in 1998 and 1999 (group 1), 25 schools only in 1999 (group 2), and the last 25 schools started treatment in 2001 (group 3). In 1998 group 1 is the treatment group and group 2+3 are the comparison group(s). In 1999 group 1+2 are treatment and group 3 is comparison.

Q4: They do that, because they suspect a bias in treatment selection either on within-school pupil level (children with certain health characteristics receiving significantly more often treatment) or on between-school level (children with certain health characteristics changing schools to get treatment from the experiment). This would threaten the results as it could bias the estimates of treatment's direct or external effect on school attendance. They find that the groups are in fact similar, and that any bias is likely to be small

// comments: EG maybe in 99: parents of G2 see that other previously very sick kids from G1 got better thanks to treatment and therefore send their kids to get the treatment too. Thus, there would be a selection bias in the within-school sample, as some children miss treatment in their school?. Or G3 kids move to G2 to get treatment?
EG 2: or maybe due to external effects from G1 more kids in G2 are healthier and then do not get the treatment in G2 


Q5: Higher worm loads in 98&99 lead to more sick children. This leads to less school participation by the comparison group due that exogenous shock than normal, whereas the treatment group is mostly (as most kids got dewormed) unaffected by the shock and shows higher school participation. Thus, in 98&99 there is a bias when comparing control and treatment as participation in control is lower than usual whilst working with a "normal" (ie largely unaffected by the flooding) treatment group. I expect the bias to be positive. This means that when estimating deworming effects on participation, the analysis will overestimate the effect (which is a positive effect, ie more deworming means more participation) of deworming.
